# National Park Service Analysis
The main project file is "National-Park-Analysis.ipynb"

presentation slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1I002Oo8sMiDOP03ratRC79AjQSQmNbOsjmi_vT9cL2U/edit?usp=sharing

## **Background:**

This project is an analysis and aid for travelers who would like to plan a trip to a US national park. There are several prime factors that would play a role in the decision-making: campgrounds, amenities (in the campgrounds), activities, and events.

To Note: The National Park API has a 4-letter park code/abbreviation for each of the parks. This is used more than the full name of the park. For the project targeted towards travelers, it is for their conveniences that the park code will be decoded into the full name of the park. The file "NP_dict.ipynb" is meant to translate the 4-letter park codes using "/Resources/NPS-Unit-List.csv" which was taken from https://www.nps.gov/aboutus/foia/upload/NPS-Unit-List.xlsx (the National Park website) and it saves it to a csv file located at "/output_data/park_dict_df.csv" to be later used in a dictionary. However the original file from the website is either incomplete or out-dated, so there are parks that are manually added, by us, in the .csv file.

### **Section 1:**
The first section determines which parks have the most campgrounds as well as which campgrounds have campsites for tents only or have eletrical hookups for RVs. Therefore, some travelers would prefer campsites with tents only or with spots for RVs. A campground with more campsites would be better for planning since, typically, these sites are not reservable. Chesapeake and Ohio Canal National Park has the most RV friendly campgrounds with 37 in the park. Lake Mead has the least amount with 15. To make this useful for customers and potential park visitors that are wanting to prioritize their trip with potential RV camping, we analyzed the parks that have at least 15 campgrounds. Lake Mead has the least of these options. A total of 117 parks had at least 1 campground. Campers can rely on an average of 5.42 campground locations for each park across the nation. Visitors who prefer to camp in tents will have different options than those with RV’s (with electrical hookups). Lake Mead has more than 400 options available for tent only campers. National Parks seem to cater more to tent only sites than to electrical hookups with 71.7% of all National Park campsites having tent only sites. Only 28.3% of all National Park campsites have electrical hookups for RV's. This suggests that the RV camper will have more accommodations and availability within all National Parks on average.
Yellowstone National Park would be a great option for RV campers to visit based on the fact that they have about 310 electrical hookups available in their park followed by Glen Canyon National Park with 306 electrical hookups.

### **Section 2:**
The second section analyzes the amenities in the campgrounds; the travelers may have some preferences on the campgrounds according to the amenities that the park offers such as "ice for sale", "camp store", "cell phone reception", "vault/composing toilets", etc.. We suppose that any sort of toilet, either vault or compost, is considered an amenity. The national park with the most amenities in its campgrounds on average is American Memorial Park, Ebey’s Landing National Historical Reserve, Selma to Montgomery NP and Lake Clark NP with 14 amenities on average followed by Mesa Verde National Park with 13 amenities. These parks would be preferable for travelers who are camping for the first time or travelers with children. Interestingly, all campgrounds have three amenities (toilet (vault or compost), potable water, and showers); we suppose there are federal laws that mandate these amenities. The amenity that is least likely to be provided is internet connectivity with only 9% of campgrounds which seems obvious as most parks are off-grid. This is followed by laundry with only 10% of campgrounds. Interestly only 66.5% of campgrounds in the national parks have trash or recycling collection; this seems odd since we would imagine that the protected parks would have a way to collect any waste that would harm the environment.

### **Section 3:**
The third section analyzes the activities in the park. This includes "Biking", "Climbing", "Boating", "Hiking", "Arts and Culture", etc.. The park with the most activites, with 16 activities, is the Acadia National Park. This is followed by Abraham Lincoln Birthplace Historical Park with 9 activites. These parks are highly recommended for families and foreigners who would like to learn about the Unites States' nature/country and its history. Also travelers with children would want parks with many activites to entertain them. Anacostia Park specifically has a playground. Obviously travelers who are interested in a specific activity should visit parks with that activity. The mean number of amenities in each park is 3.07 and the median is 1.0; this implies that there is skewness in the data. This support the fact that 95.9% (out of 424 total national parks) of parks have zero amenities and only 4.1% of parks have at least 1 amenity. Therefore if activiies are a up-most important factor for chosing a park, then you have only 40 parks to choose from.

### **Section 4:**
Lastly, the fourth section analyzes the events in the park. These are either regular (reoccuring) or special events that the park offers; this includes tours, talks, walks, shows, ect.. This data from the api changes constantly, so planning a travel to a park based of the events may be difficult especially the "special events". At the moment of 5/17/23 at 12:00PM AZ, the common type of events are cultural/craft demonstrations and talks (equally 2 of each) for both types of events. Otherwise, the most common regular events are talks and walks. At the moment the park with the most events is Yorktown Battlefield with 2 events. These two events are regular guided tours/walk/talk so this park is suitable for travelers who are history buffs. Generally, a park with some connection to culture, specific/rare scenery, or history probably has an event you could attend to.

Each traveler will each have specific/unique needs and wants in a trip to a national park. Depending on whether the traveler is going camping, staying in a RV, taking a day trip to hiking, attending a historical tour, etc. there is park that is suitable. There is a national park for everyone and for every type of traveler. 

# **Sources:**
We used the National Park Service API to get the datasets used in this project came from:
https://www.nps.gov/subjects/developer/index.htm

The documentation on how to use the National Park Service API came from:
https://www.nps.gov/subjects/developer/api-documentation.htm